Compositing is the act of
combining two
or more visual elements
to create the illusion
of a single, cohesive image,
and is easily
one of the most important aspects
of any visual effects shot.
This technique has existed nearly
as long as film itself,
with techniques like multiple exposure
and traveling mattes
being used very early on.
Thankfully, with digital compositing
and software like After Effects,
achieving great visual effects
is more accessible than ever.
So today, we're going to be looking
at five compositing
tips to help
you create a more convincing final image.
We have an After Effects
project here with a few elements
to composite,
and our first step
is going to be
to make sure our assets are properly
color matched to their environment.
To help this process, click
this red/green/blue icon
underneath your preview image.
Now you can view your footage
in separate red,
green, and blue color channels.
Now drop on a Curves effect
and change the curves
channel to match the color channel
set on your composition window.
Then tweak the respective channels
to match the background
as closely as possible.
Once you set your channel
back to RGB mode,
you're going to notice
how much better
your assets are matching the environment.
However, this only works
if the lighting of your background
matches the foreground element,
which leads to our next tip.
Matching the angle of light
is crucial for any compositing shot.
For example,
if your background has overhead lights
but your subject is lit from underneath,
you're going to end up with something
that feels disconnected
no matter what you do.
And that's why planning out
your VFX shots
in advance is so important.
Of course,
if you are building
your background in 3D,
that helps a ton.
But either way,
thinking about what you want
your end result to be
before you touch a camera is a must.
So if you do know what your background
is going to be before you shoot,
you can have that on hand
and light your subject to match.
Another thing
that will break your composite
and sometimes can leave
your composite feeling off
without you fully being able
to put a finger on why
is your black levels.
Like the angle of light,
this will be a dead giveaway
that your assets
live in different worlds.
And like I said,
it can be hard to diagnose
sometimes if the issue is subtle enough.
So to correct this,
we'll go to Window >
Lumetri Scopes,
and now you'll have a better view
of your black levels.
So now using this as our guide,
we'll use our curves to adjust
and get one step closer
to that convincing shot.
This next one doesn't
apply to all projects,
but if you are masking an element
with hard and soft edges,
using the regular pen tool
can lead to inconsistent feathering.
The fix this, once you
have your asset masked out,
you can hold down the Pen Tool
and select the Mask Feather Tool.
Now you can add feather gradients
to different areas of the mask to help
match the varied edges,
leading to a more natural effect.
Our last tip is using a spill suppressor
to remove
any of your original background color
that leaked into the foreground.
You can add this
by going up to Effects >
Keying, and clicking
Advanced Spill Suppressor.
You can keep your method at Standard
if that works for you,
or you can change it to Ultra.
Then select your key color.
to finish it all off.
You can add some grain
to glue everything together
and you will have your composited shot.
But there you have it.
A few tips
to sell your compositing effects.
And if you have something
you'd like to see us cover in the future,
feel free to drop a comment below.
And don't forget to like and subscribe,
because honey never spoils.
Even after thousands of years.
And you're my honey.